Scheduling Processes using at tool/command

Both Linux system administrators and hackers often need to schedule processes to run at a particular time of day. 

A system administrator might want to schedule a system backup to run every Saturday night at 2:00 AM,
for example. A hacker might want to set a script to run on a regular basis
that looks for open ports or vulnerabilities. 

In Linux, you can accomplish this in at least two ways: with 
1) at and  2) crond.

The at command is used to set up the daemon (a background process) atd,
which is useful for scheduling a job to run once at some point in the future.

The crond daemon is more suited for scheduling tasks to occur every day,
week, or month

To use at first install in your system.
sudo apt install at

We use the at daemon to schedule the execution of a command or set of
commands in the future, following the command by the time at which to
execute the process.

Time Formats Accepted by the at Command

Time format Meaning
at 7:20pm          	Scheduled to run at 7:20 PM on the current day
at 7:20pm June 25  	 Scheduled to run at 7:20 PM on June 25
at noon 		Scheduled to run at noon on the current day
at noon June 25 	Scheduled to run at noon on June 25
at tomorrow 		Scheduled to run tomorrow
at now + 20 minutes 	Scheduled to run in 20 minutes from them current time
at now + 10 hours 	Scheduled to run in 10 hours from the current time
at now + 5 days 	Scheduled to run in five days from the current date
at now + 3 weeks 	Scheduled to run in three weeks from the current date
at 7:20pm 06/25/2025 	Scheduled to run at 7:20 PM on June 25,2025

When you enter the at daemon with the specified time, at goes into
interactive mode, and you’ll be greeted with an at> prompt. Here is where
you enter the command you want executed at the specified time:


kali> sudo at 7:20am
at> /root/myscanningscript

This code snippet will schedule myscanningscript to execute today at 7:20
AM. When you want to stop entering commands, press CTRL-D.